[Applause]
[Music]
enough mutations can bypass these
failsafe striving the cell to divide
recklessly that one rogue cell becomes
two then four and eight so that's
actually we used a method called
stop-motion animation in which you are
moving the objects on he needs the
camera each frame one at a time and you
take a picture for each picture that
you've created so for this we were
watching a lot of videos on how cell
division works and from that I created a
line drawn animation that was my
reference animation and using the
software that we use for stop-motion I
was actually able to look at that
reference material wall shooting so I
could kind of arrange underneath the
camera in order to match my animation as
I would follow along and we actually
shot all of this on a green screen and
the purpose of using the green screen
was for example a live scene where you
see many cells divided me at one time
for me to have actually have to animate
each of those cells unanimously dividing
at the same time would have been a lot
of work that we wouldn't have had time
for so the green screen allowed me to do
a couple of cell divisions that I could
then duplicate it in in order to show
cell division to the for the name so you
only miss they have to actually look
what it wants and then you just
duplicate
exactly so it sounded painstaking how
long did it take to like record one
seldom I think I did in a day I did a
couple of cell divisions so so in a full
workday so probably a couple of hours
for one I think actually the stuff that
took longer was the text we were
animating the word growth we were
animating and getting smaller and taller
and wider and for this I was literally
adding one single seed at a time in
order to create so how did you animate
the word cancer actually started with
the word cancer written and moved
backwards and was surgically removing
one seed at a time and then we played
that footage backwards to make it look
like it was appearing when I use that
trick that a lot of times in stop-motion
because if you want things to really
conform anytime that you're having
things come together or fall apart it
usually makes more sense to start with
that together frame and work from there
and do the scatter from there and then
just like that in Reverse it's a little
too painstaking stop-motion is
painstaking it's a labor of love but you
have to also be practical deadlines so
there's this technique that you guys use
to make itself look like their lives
they're not just sitting there as
how does that work exactly so in
animation shimmering is usually when you
are if you're doing drawn animation
you're drawing that same drawing
multiple times but with the slight
variations so that way you don't have a
stagnant still frame under the camera
with the cells using the seeds and the
Nerds we had the opportunity to really
have a look like they were kind of
vibrating and pulsating in a way and so
those were actually depending on the
cell of three to five pictures with the
candy nerds
I would rearrange their position each
time so that's actually removing all of
the colorful nerds leaving the purple
ones in the center and moving the
colorful ones back in into a different
position but with the seeds when the
seeds were shimmering for that I would
actually just very very very lightly
like roll my hand over it very slightly
and then make sure none of them fell out
of the constraints of the cell fix the
edges to take that picture and just
slightly do that again so it just lately
changes their position or Brussels them
up a little bit so that would cycle over
and over and those would play a tack on
what animators called threes and threes
means that each picture is on screen for
three frames
24 frames per second so for the shimmers
who are seeing 80 different pictures
each second of footage how much of your
sweat and tears are up I think actually
to be honest the part that was the most
perspiration off of using the Nerds for
animation was the place where we had to
separate them into colors in order to
use them to animate every time I would
put them
and the table comes anime I would have
to separate them out at the end of the
day again and it was that was the most
frustrating part and honestly up until
like three weeks ago I dropped my purse
on the ground and like lentils came out
of my purse and onto the floor like this
this video will stay with me
[Music]
[Applause]